docs/faq/README.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## What is the configuration used in the demo GIF?

- **Terminal Emulator**: [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
  - **Theme**: Minimal
  - **Color Scheme**: [Snazzy](https://github.com/sindresorhus/iterm2-snazzy)
  - **Font**: [FiraCode Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads)
- **Shell**: [Fish Shell](https://fishshell.com/)
  - **Configuration**: [matchai's Dotfiles](https://github.com/matchai/dotfiles/blob/b6c6a701d0af8d145a8370288c00bb9f0648b5c2/.config/fish/config.fish)
  - **Prompt**: [Starship](https://starship.rs/)

## How do I get command completion as shown in the demo GIF?

Completion support, or autocomplete, is provided by your shell of choice. In the case of the demo, the demo was done with [Fish Shell](https://fishshell.com/), which provides completions by default. If you use Z Shell (zsh), I'd suggest taking a look at [zsh-autosuggestions](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions).

## Do top level `format` and `<module>.disabled` do the same thing?

Yes, they can both be used to disable modules in the prompt. If all you plan to do is disable modules, `<module>.disabled` is the preferred way to do so for these reasons:

- Disabling modules is more explicit than omitting them from the top level `format`
- Newly created modules will be added to the prompt as Starship is updated

## The docs say Starship is cross-shell. Why isn't my preferred shell supported?

The way Starship is built, it should be possible to add support for virtually any shell. The starship binary is stateless and shell agnostic, so as long as your shell supports prompt customization and shell expansion, Starship can be used.

Here's a small example getting Starship working with bash:

```sh
# Get the status code from the last command executed
STATUS=$?

# Get the number of jobs running.
NUM_JOBS=$(jobs -p | wc -l)

# Set the prompt to the output of `starship prompt`
PS1="$(starship prompt --status=$STATUS --jobs=$NUM_JOBS)"
```

The [Bash implementation](https://github.com/starship/starship/blob/master/src/init/starship.bash) built into Starship is slightly more complex to allow for advanced features like the [Command Duration module](https://starship.rs/config/#command-duration) and to ensure that Starship is compatible with pre-installed Bash configurations.

For a list of all flags accepted by `starship prompt`, use the following command:

```sh
starship prompt --help
```

The prompt will use as much context as is provided, but no flags are "required".

## How do I run Starship on Linux distributions with older versions of glibc?

If you get an error like "_version 'GLIBC_2.18' not found (required by starship)_" when using the prebuilt binary (for example, on CentOS 6 or 7), you can use a binary compiled with `musl` instead of `glibc`:

```sh
curl -sS https://starship.rs/install.sh | sh -s -- --platform unknown-linux-musl
```

## Why do I see `Executing command "..." timed out.` warnings?

Starship executes different commands to get information to display in the
prompt, for example the version of a program or the current git status. To make
sure starship doesn't hang while trying to execute these commands we set a time
limit, if a command takes longer than this limit starship will stop the
execution of the command and output the above warning, this is expected
behaviour. This time limit is configurable using the [`command_timeout`key](/config/#prompt) so if you want you can increase the time limit. You can
also follow the debugging steps below to see which command is being slow and
see if you can optimise it. Finally you can set the `STARSHIP_LOG` env var to
`error` to hide these warnings.

## I see symbols I don't understand or expect, what do they mean?

If you see symbols that you don't recognise you can use `starship explain` to
explain the currently showing modules.

## Starship is doing something unexpected, how can I debug it?

You can enable the debug logs by using the `STARSHIP_LOG` env var. These logs
can be very verbose so it is often useful to use the `module` command if you are
trying to debug a particular module, for example, if you are trying to debug
the `rust` module you could run the following command to get the trace
logs and output from the module.

```sh
env STARSHIP_LOG=trace starship module rust
```

If starship is being slow you can try using the `timings` command to see if
there is a particular module or command that to blame.

```sh
env STARSHIP_LOG=trace starship timings
```

This will output the trace log and a breakdown of all modules that either took
more than 1ms to execute or produced some output.

Finally if you find a bug you can use the `bug-report` command to create a
Github issue.

```sh
starship bug-report
```

## Why don't I see a glyph symbol in my prompt?

The most common cause of this is system misconfiguration. Some Linux distros in
particular do not come with font support out-of-the-box. You need to ensure that:

- Your locale is set to a UTF-8 value, like `de_DE.UTF-8` or `ja_JP.UTF-8`. If `LC_ALL` is not a UTF-8 value,
  [you will need to change it](https://www.tecmint.com/set-system-locales-in-linux/).
- You have an emoji font installed. Most systems come with an emoji font by default, but
  some (notably Arch Linux) do not. You can usually install one through your system's
  package manager--[noto emoji](https://www.google.com/get/noto/help/emoji/) is a popular choice.
- You are using a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/).

To test your system, run the following commands in a terminal:

```sh
echo -e "\xf0\x9f\x90\x8d"
echo -e "\xee\x82\xa0"
```

The first line should produce a [snake emoji](https://emojipedia.org/snake/),
while the second should produce a [powerline branch symbol (e0a0)](https://github.com/ryanoasis/powerline-extra-symbols#glyphs).

If either symbol fails to display correctly, your system is still misconfigured.
Unfortunately, getting font configuration correct is sometimes difficult. Users
on the Discord may be able to help. If both symbols display correctly, but
you still don't see them in starship, [file a bug report!](https://github.com/starship/starship/issues/new/choose)

## How do I uninstall Starship?

Starship is just as easy to uninstall as it is to install in the first place.

1. Remove any lines in your shell config (e.g. `~/.bashrc`) used to initialize Starship.
1. Delete the Starship binary.

If Starship was installed using a package manager, please refer to their docs for uninstallation instructions.

If Starship was installed using the install script, the following command will delete the binary:

```sh
# Locate and delete the starship binary
sh -c 'rm "$(command -v 'starship')"'
```

Commit message:

add starship check to faq

docs/faq/README.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## What is the configuration used in the demo GIF?

- **Terminal Emulator**: [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
  - **Theme**: Minimal
  - **Color Scheme**: [Snazzy](https://github.com/sindresorhus/iterm2-snazzy)
  - **Font**: [FiraCode Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads)
- **Shell**: [Fish Shell](https://fishshell.com/)
  - **Configuration**: [matchai's Dotfiles](https://github.com/matchai/dotfiles/blob/b6c6a701d0af8d145a8370288c00bb9f0648b5c2/.config/fish/config.fish)
  - **Prompt**: [Starship](https://starship.rs/)

## How do I get command completion as shown in the demo GIF?

Completion support, or autocomplete, is provided by your shell of choice. In the case of the demo, the demo was done with [Fish Shell](https://fishshell.com/), which provides completions by default. If you use Z Shell (zsh), I'd suggest taking a look at [zsh-autosuggestions](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions).

## Do top level `format` and `<module>.disabled` do the same thing?

Yes, they can both be used to disable modules in the prompt. If all you plan to do is disable modules, `<module>.disabled` is the preferred way to do so for these reasons:

- Disabling modules is more explicit than omitting them from the top level `format`
- Newly created modules will be added to the prompt as Starship is updated

## The docs say Starship is cross-shell. Why isn't my preferred shell supported?

The way Starship is built, it should be possible to add support for virtually any shell. The starship binary is stateless and shell agnostic, so as long as your shell supports prompt customization and shell expansion, Starship can be used.

Here's a small example getting Starship working with bash:

```sh
# Get the status code from the last command executed
STATUS=$?

# Get the number of jobs running.
NUM_JOBS=$(jobs -p | wc -l)

# Set the prompt to the output of `starship prompt`
PS1="$(starship prompt --status=$STATUS --jobs=$NUM_JOBS)"
```

The [Bash implementation](https://github.com/starship/starship/blob/master/src/init/starship.bash) built into Starship is slightly more complex to allow for advanced features like the [Command Duration module](https://starship.rs/config/#command-duration) and to ensure that Starship is compatible with pre-installed Bash configurations.

For a list of all flags accepted by `starship prompt`, use the following command:

```sh
starship prompt --help
```

The prompt will use as much context as is provided, but no flags are "required".

## How do I run Starship on Linux distributions with older versions of glibc?

If you get an error like "_version 'GLIBC_2.18' not found (required by starship)_" when using the prebuilt binary (for example, on CentOS 6 or 7), you can use a binary compiled with `musl` instead of `glibc`:

```sh
curl -sS https://starship.rs/install.sh | sh -s -- --platform unknown-linux-musl
```

## Why do I see `Executing command "..." timed out.` warnings?

Starship executes different commands to get information to display in the
prompt, for example the version of a program or the current git status. To make
sure starship doesn't hang while trying to execute these commands we set a time
limit, if a command takes longer than this limit starship will stop the
execution of the command and output the above warning, this is expected
behaviour. This time limit is configurable using the [`command_timeout`key](/config/#prompt) so if you want you can increase the time limit. You can
also follow the debugging steps below to see which command is being slow and
see if you can optimise it. Finally you can set the `STARSHIP_LOG` env var to
`error` to hide these warnings.

## I see symbols I don't understand or expect, what do they mean?

If you see symbols that you don't recognise you can use `starship explain` to
explain the currently showing modules.

## Starship is doing something unexpected, how can I debug it?

You can enable the debug logs by using the `STARSHIP_LOG` env var. These logs
can be very verbose so it is often useful to use the `module` command if you are
trying to debug a particular module, for example, if you are trying to debug
the `rust` module you could run the following command to get the trace
logs and output from the module.

```sh
env STARSHIP_LOG=trace starship module rust
```

If starship is being slow you can try using the `timings` command to see if
there is a particular module or command that to blame.

```sh
env STARSHIP_LOG=trace starship timings
```

This will output the trace log and a breakdown of all modules that either took
more than 1ms to execute or produced some output.

Finally if you find a bug you can use the `bug-report` command to create a
Github issue.

```sh
starship bug-report
```

## Why don't I see a glyph symbol in my prompt?

The most common cause of this is system misconfiguration. Some Linux distros in
particular do not come with font support out-of-the-box. You need to ensure that:

- Your locale is set to a UTF-8 value, like `de_DE.UTF-8` or `ja_JP.UTF-8`. If `LC_ALL` is not a UTF-8 value,
  [you will need to change it](https://www.tecmint.com/set-system-locales-in-linux/).
- You have an emoji font installed. Most systems come with an emoji font by default, but
  some (notably Arch Linux) do not. You can usually install one through your system's
  package manager--[noto emoji](https://www.google.com/get/noto/help/emoji/) is a popular choice.
- You are using a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/).

To test your system, run the following commands in a terminal:

```sh
echo -e "\xf0\x9f\x90\x8d"
echo -e "\xee\x82\xa0"
```

The first line should produce a [snake emoji](https://emojipedia.org/snake/),
while the second should produce a [powerline branch symbol (e0a0)](https://github.com/ryanoasis/powerline-extra-symbols#glyphs).

If either symbol fails to display correctly, your system is still misconfigured.
Unfortunately, getting font configuration correct is sometimes difficult. Users
on the Discord may be able to help. If both symbols display correctly, but
you still don't see them in starship, [file a bug report!](https://github.com/starship/starship/issues/new/choose)

A more complete test can be performed by running the `check` command:

```sh
startship check
```

Output from this command is dependant on your local configuration and can vary
from one run to another.

## How do I uninstall Starship?

Starship is just as easy to uninstall as it is to install in the first place.

1. Remove any lines in your shell config (e.g. `~/.bashrc`) used to initialize Starship.
1. Delete the Starship binary.

If Starship was installed using a package manager, please refer to their docs for uninstallation instructions.

If Starship was installed using the install script, the following command will delete the binary:

```sh
# Locate and delete the starship binary
sh -c 'rm "$(command -v 'starship')"'
```
