docs/presets/README.md, before:

# Presets

Here is a collection of community-submitted configuration presets for Starship.
If you have a preset to share, please [submit a PR](https://github.com/starship/starship/edit/master/docs/presets/README.md) updating this file! 😊

To get details on how to use a preset, simply click on the image.

## [Nerd Font Symbols](./nerd-font.md)

This preset changes the symbols for each module to use Nerd Font symbols.

[![Screenshot of Nerd Font Symbols preset](/presets/img/nerd-font-symbols.png "Click to view Nerd Font Symbols preset")](./nerd-font)

## [Bracketed Segments](./bracketed-segments.md)

This preset changes the format of all the built-in modules to show their segment
in brackets instead of using the default Starship wording ("via", "on", etc.).

[![Screenshot of Bracketed Segments preset](/presets/img/bracketed-segments.png "Click to view Bracketed Segments preset")](./bracketed-segments)

## [Plain Text Symbols](./plain-text.md)

This preset changes the symbols for each module into plain text. Great if you
don't have access to Unicode.

[![Screenshot of Plain Text Symbols preset](/presets/img/plain-text-symbols.png "Click to view Plain Text Symbols preset")](./plain-text)

## [No Runtime Versions](./no-runtimes.md)

This preset hides the version of language runtimes. If you work in containers or virtualized environments, this one is for you!

[![Screenshot of Hide Runtime Versions preset](/presets/img/no-runtime-versions.png "Click to view No Runtime Versions preset")](./no-runtimes)

## [Pure Prompt](./pure-preset.md)

This preset emulates the look and behavior of [Pure](https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure).

[![Screenshot of Pure preset](/presets/img/pure-preset.png "Click to view Pure Prompt preset")](./pure-preset)

## [Pastel Powerline](./pastel-powerline.md)

This preset is inspired by [M365Princess](https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/blob/main/themes/M365Princess.omp.json).
It also shows how path substitution works in starship.

[![Screenshot of Pastel Powerline preset](/presets/img/pastel-powerline.png "Click to view Pure Prompt preset")](./pastel-powerline)

Commit message:

feat(preset): Add powerline-only-symbols preset
Related to #2563 & #3544

docs/presets/README.md, after:

# Presets

Here is a collection of community-submitted configuration presets for Starship.
If you have a preset to share, please [submit a PR](https://github.com/starship/starship/edit/master/docs/presets/README.md) updating this file! 😊

To get details on how to use a preset, simply click on the image.

## [Nerd Font Symbols](./nerd-font.md)

This preset changes the symbols for each module to use Nerd Font symbols.

[![Screenshot of Nerd Font Symbols preset](/presets/img/nerd-font-symbols.png "Click to view Nerd Font Symbols preset")](./nerd-font)

## [Powerline Only Symbols](./powerline-only-symbols.md)

This preset changes the symbols for a few modules to not use Nerd Font symbols.

[![Screenshot of Powerline Only Symbols preset](/presets/img/powerline-only-symbols.png "Click to view Powerline Only Symbols preset")](./powerline-only-symbols)

## [Bracketed Segments](./bracketed-segments.md)

This preset changes the format of all the built-in modules to show their segment
in brackets instead of using the default Starship wording ("via", "on", etc.).

[![Screenshot of Bracketed Segments preset](/presets/img/bracketed-segments.png "Click to view Bracketed Segments preset")](./bracketed-segments)

## [Plain Text Symbols](./plain-text.md)

This preset changes the symbols for each module into plain text. Great if you
don't have access to Unicode.

[![Screenshot of Plain Text Symbols preset](/presets/img/plain-text-symbols.png "Click to view Plain Text Symbols preset")](./plain-text)

## [No Runtime Versions](./no-runtimes.md)

This preset hides the version of language runtimes. If you work in containers or virtualized environments, this one is for you!

[![Screenshot of Hide Runtime Versions preset](/presets/img/no-runtime-versions.png "Click to view No Runtime Versions preset")](./no-runtimes)

## [Pure Prompt](./pure-preset.md)

This preset emulates the look and behavior of [Pure](https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure).

[![Screenshot of Pure preset](/presets/img/pure-preset.png "Click to view Pure Prompt preset")](./pure-preset)

## [Pastel Powerline](./pastel-powerline.md)

This preset is inspired by [M365Princess](https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/blob/main/themes/M365Princess.omp.json).
It also shows how path substitution works in starship.

[![Screenshot of Pastel Powerline preset](/presets/img/pastel-powerline.png "Click to view Pure Prompt preset")](./pastel-powerline)
