docs/README.md, before:

---
home: true
heroImage: /logo.svg
heroText: null
tagline: The minimal, blazing-fast, and infinitely customizable prompt for any shell!
actionText: Get Started →
actionLink: ./guide/
features:
  - title: Compatibility First
    details: Works on the most common shells on the most common operating systems. Use it everywhere!
  - title: Rust-Powered
    details: Brings the best-in-class speed and safety of Rust, to make your prompt as quick and reliable as possible.
  - title: Customizable
    details: Every little detail is customizable to your liking, to make this prompt as minimal or feature-rich as you'd like it to be.
footer: ISC Licensed | Copyright © 2019-present Starship Contributors

# Used for the description meta tag, for SEO
metaTitle: "Starship: Cross-Shell Prompt"
description: Starship is the minimal, blazing fast, and extremely customizable prompt for any shell! Shows the information you need, while staying sleek and minimal. Quick installation available for Bash, Fish, ZSH, Ion, Tcsh, Elvish, Nu, Xonsh, Cmd, and PowerShell.
---

<div class="center">
  <video class="demo-video" muted autoplay loop playsinline>
    <source src="/demo.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="/demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
</div>

### Prerequisites

- A [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) installed and enabled in your terminal.

### Quick Install

1. Install the **starship** binary:

   #### Install Latest Version

   With Shell:

   ```sh
   curl -sS https://starship.rs/install.sh | sh
   ```

   To update the Starship itself, rerun the above script. It will replace the current version without touching Starship's configuration.

   #### Install via Package Manager

   With [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

   ```sh
   brew install starship
   ```
   With [Winget](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli):

   ```powershell
   winget install starship
   ```

1. Add the init script to your shell's config file:

   #### Bash

   Add the following to the end of `~/.bashrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.bashrc

   eval "$(starship init bash)"
   ```

   #### Fish

   Add the following to the end of `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.config/fish/config.fish

   starship init fish | source
   ```

   #### Zsh

   Add the following to the end of `~/.zshrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.zshrc

   eval "$(starship init zsh)"
   ```

   #### Powershell

   Add the following to the end of `Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1`. You can check the location of this file by querying the `$PROFILE` variable in PowerShell. Typically the path is `~\Documents\PowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` or `~/.config/powershell/Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` on -Nix.

   ```sh
   Invoke-Expression (&starship init powershell)
   ```

   #### Ion

   Add the following to the end of `~/.config/ion/initrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.config/ion/initrc

   eval $(starship init ion)
   ```

   #### Elvish

   ::: warning

   Only elvish v0.18 or higher is supported.

   :::

   Add the following to the end of `~/.elvish/rc.elv`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.elvish/rc.elv

   eval (starship init elvish)
   ```

   #### Tcsh

   Add the following to the end of `~/.tcshrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.tcshrc

   eval `starship init tcsh`
   ```

   #### Nushell

   ::: warning

   This will change in the future.
   Only Nushell v0.78+ is supported.

   :::

   Add the following to the end of your Nushell env file (find it by running `$nu.env-path` in Nushell):
   ```sh
   mkdir ~/.cache/starship
   starship init nu | save -f ~/.cache/starship/init.nu
   ```

   And add the following to the end of your Nushell configuration (find it by running `$nu.config-path`):

   ```sh
   source ~/.cache/starship/init.nu
   ```
   #### Xonsh

   Add the following to the end of `~/.xonshrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.xonshrc

   execx($(starship init xonsh))
   ```

   #### Cmd

   You need to use [Clink](https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/clink.html) (v1.2.30+) with Cmd. Add the following to a file `starship.lua` and place this file in Clink scripts directory:

   ```lua
   -- starship.lua

   load(io.popen('starship init cmd'):read("*a"))()
   ```

Commit message:

add a note about the init file being also a module to all docs

docs/README.md, after:

---
home: true
heroImage: /logo.svg
heroText: null
tagline: The minimal, blazing-fast, and infinitely customizable prompt for any shell!
actionText: Get Started →
actionLink: ./guide/
features:
  - title: Compatibility First
    details: Works on the most common shells on the most common operating systems. Use it everywhere!
  - title: Rust-Powered
    details: Brings the best-in-class speed and safety of Rust, to make your prompt as quick and reliable as possible.
  - title: Customizable
    details: Every little detail is customizable to your liking, to make this prompt as minimal or feature-rich as you'd like it to be.
footer: ISC Licensed | Copyright © 2019-present Starship Contributors

# Used for the description meta tag, for SEO
metaTitle: "Starship: Cross-Shell Prompt"
description: Starship is the minimal, blazing fast, and extremely customizable prompt for any shell! Shows the information you need, while staying sleek and minimal. Quick installation available for Bash, Fish, ZSH, Ion, Tcsh, Elvish, Nu, Xonsh, Cmd, and PowerShell.
---

<div class="center">
  <video class="demo-video" muted autoplay loop playsinline>
    <source src="/demo.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="/demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
</div>

### Prerequisites

- A [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) installed and enabled in your terminal.

### Quick Install

1. Install the **starship** binary:

   #### Install Latest Version

   With Shell:

   ```sh
   curl -sS https://starship.rs/install.sh | sh
   ```

   To update the Starship itself, rerun the above script. It will replace the current version without touching Starship's configuration.

   #### Install via Package Manager

   With [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

   ```sh
   brew install starship
   ```
   With [Winget](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli):

   ```powershell
   winget install starship
   ```

1. Add the init script to your shell's config file:

   #### Bash

   Add the following to the end of `~/.bashrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.bashrc

   eval "$(starship init bash)"
   ```

   #### Fish

   Add the following to the end of `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.config/fish/config.fish

   starship init fish | source
   ```

   #### Zsh

   Add the following to the end of `~/.zshrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.zshrc

   eval "$(starship init zsh)"
   ```

   #### Powershell

   Add the following to the end of `Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1`. You can check the location of this file by querying the `$PROFILE` variable in PowerShell. Typically the path is `~\Documents\PowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` or `~/.config/powershell/Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` on -Nix.

   ```sh
   Invoke-Expression (&starship init powershell)
   ```

   #### Ion

   Add the following to the end of `~/.config/ion/initrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.config/ion/initrc

   eval $(starship init ion)
   ```

   #### Elvish

   ::: warning

   Only elvish v0.18 or higher is supported.

   :::

   Add the following to the end of `~/.elvish/rc.elv`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.elvish/rc.elv

   eval (starship init elvish)
   ```

   #### Tcsh

   Add the following to the end of `~/.tcshrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.tcshrc

   eval `starship init tcsh`
   ```

   #### Nushell

   ::: warning

   This will change in the future.
   Only Nushell v0.78+ is supported.

   :::

   Add the following to the end of your Nushell env file (find it by running `$nu.env-path` in Nushell):
   ```sh
   mkdir ~/.cache/starship
   starship init nu | save -f ~/.cache/starship/init.nu
   ```

   And add the following to the end of your Nushell configuration (find it by running `$nu.config-path`):

   ```sh
   source ~/.cache/starship/init.nu
   ```

   ::: note

   the Nushell init file is both a script, a module and an overlay.
   this means `use init.nu` and `overlay use init.nu` are also valid activations for Nushell.

   :::

   #### Xonsh

   Add the following to the end of `~/.xonshrc`:

   ```sh
   # ~/.xonshrc

   execx($(starship init xonsh))
   ```

   #### Cmd

   You need to use [Clink](https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/clink.html) (v1.2.30+) with Cmd. Add the following to a file `starship.lua` and place this file in Clink scripts directory:

   ```lua
   -- starship.lua

   load(io.popen('starship init cmd'):read("*a"))()
   ```
